[Music]
it was a landmark case for the 15 judges
of the international court of justice
with 52 countries participating it is
one of the largest the court had ever to
decide on they had to rule on the legal
consequences of Israel's 57 yearlong
occupation of the West Bank Gaza and
East Jerusalem and the impact it has on
the Palestinian population this is a
different case than the one South Africa
filed against Israel for committing
genocide in Gaza in this ad opinion most
of the judges agreed Israel's occupation
has become a permanent annexation and
therefore violates International
laws with respect to the policies and
practices of Israel referred to in
question a which were found to be
unlawful Israel has an obligation to put
an end to those unlawful acts in this
respect Israel must immediately sees all
new settlement activity Israel also has
an obligation to repeal all legislation
and measures creating or maintaining the
unlawful situation including those which
discriminate against the Palestinian
people the court says Israel is imposing
systematic discrimination mounting to
aarti on the Palestinian people its
policies of encouraging more than
700,000 settlers to live in the occupied
territories is in breach of
international law the court comes to the
conclusion that Israel's policies and
practices including the maintenance and
expansion of settlements the the
construction of associated
infrastructure and the wall the
exploitation of Natural Resources the
proclamation of Jerusalem as Israel's
Capital the court considers that these
policies and practices amount to
annexation of large parts of the
occupied Palestinian territory the court
also said that all UN member states and
international organizations have an
obligation under international law to
stop enabling the illegal occupation a
Palestinian delegation the court called
it a historic day for the Palestinian
people I believe it's historic because
you know it provides certain answers to
many questions that stayed in our minds
for so many years it you know answers
the questions that so many countries
were awaiting in order to decide and to
determine their policies Vis A Israel
and the type of relationship that should
they should have and maintain with the
Israel as an occup in power Israel
immediately rejected the Court's
conclusion and prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said Israel can't occupy land
that is theirs the court ordered the UN
General Assembly and the UN Security
Council to take whatever action
necessary to end the illegal occupation
a watershed moment many Palestinians
long hoped and worked for official
recognition by the world's highest court
of their decades long suffering and the
illegality of Israel's actions but also
knowing that this non-binding legal
opinion won't change anything
immediately this is now up to all UN
members to decide step fasten Al jazer
the make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer